# EE271_FinalProject

## Overview
For my EE 271 Final Project, I have chosen to develop a "Flappy Bird" game on the DE1_SoC board with a 16x16 LED 
display connected to the GPIO ports of the FGPA board. You can find a [short demonstration video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0x5fYx-F6s)
for this project on Youtube.

## User Manual
**To load this project onto a DE1_SoC board:**\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. Download the entire repository\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. Open DE1_SoC.qpf in Quartus Prime\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. Compile the project with DE1_SoC.sv as the top-level entity\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. Power on your DE1_SoC board and connect your DE1_SoC board to your computer via USB\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5. In Quartus, go to File > Open, and open the programming file (qpf) generated by Quartus\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6. Once the programming window pops up, hit "run" to load the design onto the FPGA

**To play the game once the design is loaded onto the FPGA:**
- This is a game of Flappy Bird. The objective of this game is to navigate the bird
through a maze of randomly generated pipes. Pressing the button will fly the bird higher, while not pressing the button will let the bird fall.

**Controls:**
- **SW9: Start a new game.** At the end of a game or any time during the game, toggle this switch
to start a brand new game. When the switch is flipped to 1, a brand new game is initiated. When the switch is flipped to 0, the game will run.
- **SW2, SW1, SW0: Difficulty adjustment.** Use these switches to adjust the difficulty of the game. The switches
can be flipped any time during the game, and the difficulty will adjust accordingly. If n out of the 3 switches are flipped on, the game will enter level (n+1) of difficulty.
- **KEY3: Fly.** One press of the button will result in the bird going up by one LED. Holding the button down counts as one press.

**Displays:**
- **LED: Game screen.** The red LEDs display the location of the bird, while the green LEDs
display the location of the pipes. The “Game over” letters will be displayed on screen if the bird
collides with the pipe or goes out of either the upper or lower bound.
- **HEX2, HEX1, HEX0: Current score.** Successfully flying past one pipe will add one to the score. The score display will be a maximum of 999 before resetting to 000. The score will reset to zero at the start of a new game.
- **HEX5: Difficulty level** See a detailed description of the difficulties in the “Controls” section above.
